So I did show you how you can add a service.
In this case here, such as testing MongoDB database,
which is running in a container.
But now when it comes to communicating
with that service container,
from inside your Job,
therefore there are some things to watch out for,
and it will now matter,
whether your Job runs in a container, or not.
If your Job does run in a container,
as it does here,
then connecting to container services,
is super simple because GitHub Actions
will automatically create a networking environment,
where you can use the label of your service container,
as a connection address.
So in my case here, I can just use MongoDB, here,
since that is the label I'm using down there.
So this label can now be used
for establishing a network connection.
So that's one important thing.
And this only works if your Job runs in a container,
as my Job does here.
I also must change the connection protocol here,
to just MongoDB,
but that's a MongoDB specific setting,
which I must change here, for this MongoDB image,
which I'm using here.
And you learn more about how to connect to it here,
in the official documentation.
But that is something that must be changed
to make this work.
With that, however,
with the correct credentials being used here,
and with the cluster address,
being equal to that label name here,
we got all the settings we do need
to successfully run this Workflow,
which now does not need
any external MongoDB clusters, at all,
but which instead works totally isolated,
with help of that service container.
So here, I'll create a new commit,
added MongoDB service container,
and I'll push this here.
And this of course leads
to another Workflow being triggered.
Here we go.
And as part of this Workflow,
the service container will be set up,
here, in the initialized containers step.
It does download this Mongo image,
and does set up that service container.
It starts this MongoDB service container, as you see,
and thereafter, it runs all these steps,
step by step, as before,
in this case, also inside of a container.
And you will see,
that it will successfully run all these tests,
and the web server, as the service container will be used.
Here, it connected successfully,
and now runs all these tests.
And therefore now we have a totally isolated Workflow,
that runs successfully,
that does not use any external testing database,
or testing database server.
So even if I would remove this public IP acceptance, here,
my Workflow would still run successfully here.
Now things change slightly,
if our Job is not running in a container.
So if I removed this, or commented this out.
Now the Job will run on the runner itself,
and not inside of this container anymore.
If you do that, you can still use service containers,
and you still set them up as before, here.
But now there won't be some automated network,
where you can use these service container label
for connecting.
That won't work anymore.
Instead, now you have to use this local host IP address,
one, two, seven, dot, zero, dot, zero, dot, one.
And if there are any specific ports that are needed,
you also must add that port here.
In case of MongoDB,
the default port used is this 2, 7, 0, 17 port,
and I wanna connect to that port here.
And even more importantly,
I have to open that port here, on my service container.
That's done by adding the extra ports setting.
And then here the internal 2, 7, 0, 1, 7 port,
should be forwarded to that port on the runner machine.
So that my process running on the runner machine,
my steps, which are running on the runner machine,
can connect to the MongoDB database server,
running inside of this container, through this port.
Now, which ports must be opened,
simply depends on which process you are running,
in your container,
in your service container, to be precise,
and which ports are used by these processes.
That 2, 7, 0, 17 port is simply the port used by MongoDB.
Therefore, that's the address we should use for connecting.
And that's the port that should be opened,
by that service container, to that runner machine,
so that processes running, on that runner machine,
can connect to that service running,
in that service container, through that port.
And with that adjustment made,
that is again everything,
and we can create a commit,
adjusted network settings could be the commit message.
And with that, you will see that again,
everything will be set up and will be executed, as expected,
and this Workflow will run successfully,
again, using this service container,
but now in conjunction with a Job,
that's running just on the runner,
and not inside of a container.
So here it's now,
just setting up the MongoDB service container,
and no other containers,
and once that was done,
all these Job steps will be executed,
and it will still successfully run the server,
as you see here, where it connected successfully.
And thereafter, it will also run all these tests,
as expected, and they will succeed.
And we're still using this service container,
but now, in conjunction with a Job,
that's not using containers.
And again, it is totally up to you,
and simply depends on what you want to do,
whether you wanna use containers,
service containers, or none of these features.